Well, here is a question:
Do you see people as Jehovah sees them?
Now, that’s a very practical question
that comes up when we read in the Scriptures
that they describe Noah
as being “faultless
among his contemporaries.”
Now, we all know
that Noah was an imperfect human.
So why would the Bible make the comment
that Noah was “faultless”?
Well, if you go to Insight, Volume 2,
page 604,
under the article “Perfection,”
there’s
a very, very interesting discussion of this,
and I want to read some of it to you.
It says, when talking about men
like Noah and Job and others, it says:
“It is clear that such men
were ‘faultless’ and ‘blameless’
“in the sense of measuring up fully
“to God’s requirements for them,
requirements that took into account
their imperfection and disability.”
Now, “even as a potter
“[this is the illustration
the Insight  book uses, even as a potter]
“would not expect the same quality
“when molding a vase from common clay
“as he would when forming one
“from special refined clay,
“so Jehovah’s requirements
take into consideration
“the weakness of imperfect humans.
“Though committing errors and wrongs
because of their fleshly imperfection,
“such faithful men nevertheless manifested
“‘a complete heart’ toward Jehovah.
“Thus, within the limits possible
for them to attain,
“their devotion was complete, sound,
“satisfying the divine requirements
in their case.
“Since God the Judge was pleased
with their worship,
“no human or spirit creature
could rightly find fault with [them].”
Isn’t that an interesting quote
from the Insight  volume?
The June 1, 2008, Watchtower
just adds one more thought.
It says: “Notice that the Bible
says he was faultless
“among, not from the viewpoint of,
his contemporaries.
“In other words,
he was faultless in the eyes of God,
“but to the people of the pre-Flood world,
Noah was odd.”
Well, that’s an interesting comment,
isn’t it?
Well, maybe even the members
of Noah’s family
might have had some interesting comments
about Noah.
Maybe those were some of the questions
Sister Denyse Ekrann mentioned,
some questions
her Bible student would like to ask.
Maybe we’d like to ask
some questions like that about Noah.
Did he have some annoying habits?
Did he snore?
Noah was imperfect, right?
But from Jehovah’s standpoint,
he was “faultless.”
He did everything
that Jehovah expected him to do,
given his imperfection.
Well, that highlights a very important truth,
which is that there is a difference
between the way that Jehovah sees people
and the way that we see people.
But it should always be our desire
to try to see people
the way that Jehovah can see them.
Well, now, think of some examples.
Let’s start with King David.
Now, if you had to describe
David’s life course,
what would you say?
Well, would you begin
by describing some of the major sins
that David had committed during his life?
See, maybe that’s our human tendency,
to right away think of the failure
that we know about David.
But what does 1 Kings chapter 15 say?
Let’s read this together
—1 Kings chapter 15
and verse 5.
It says: “For David did what was right
“in the eyes of Jehovah,
“and he did not turn aside from anything
“that He had commanded him
all the days of his life,
except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.”
Now, isn’t that
an interesting description of David?
Probably for us,
that’s a pretty big “except,” isn’t it?
And yet, how did Jehovah see David?
How did he view him?
Well, again,
let’s look at 1 Kings chapter 11
and verse 4.
It says: “In Solomon’s old age,
“his wives inclined his heart
to follow other gods,
“and his heart
[now, notice this, and his heart]
“was not complete with Jehovah his God
like the heart of David his father.”
So from the standpoint of Jehovah,
David had a complete heart.
Now, why was that?
Why was it that Jehovah could see David
as having a complete heart?
Insight, Volume 1, page 1211,
under the article on “Integrity,”
says this:
“David . . . committed
several serious wrongs,
“but he, nevertheless,
‘walked with integrity of heart,’
“for he accepted reproof
and corrected his way.
“He thereby proved that his heart
still retained genuine love for Jehovah God.”
Well, whether we’re speaking about Noah
or we’re speaking about David,
Jehovah could see good in these men.
He could view Noah as “faultless”
and David as having a complete heart.
Well, now, how do we view others?
We know how Jehovah sees people,
but how do we view them?
Well, the human tendency is always to look
for flaws and imperfections
and then to focus on these.
Well, now, let me show you—
Let me show you this.
What do you see here?
Well, now,
there are two ways you could answer.
You could say a piece of paper,
or you could say a spot.
Well, our human tendency
would be to answer, “I see a spot.”
And that’s the way
we tend to look at other people.
We tend to immediately identify
their weaknesses.
And by focusing on those spots, or blemishes,
what happens?
Well, often they tend to get bigger
and bigger and bigger
so that now,
instead of seeing the good things
about our brothers,
we become completely focused
on their negative qualities.
Yet, if we were to actually speak
to the individual involved
(the actual person, maybe),
how do they see themselves?
Well, maybe it’s sort of like this.
You see, they see themselves
as all black with just that one
—one small spot—
maybe just one small, bright spot
in their life.
And by focusing constantly
on negatives and imperfections,
what’s the effect?
Well, we could even close out
that one bright spot.
Brothers, what’s the solution?
We have to learn
to see people the way Jehovah sees them.
We have to learn from our heavenly Father
and work very, very hard
to be able to see them as he does.
That means we have to look for the good;
we have to emphasize the good.
And if we
don’t see it initially or immediately,
then we have to work hard
to get to know our brothers better
so that we can identify clearly
their beautiful qualities
so we come to see them
the way Jehovah does.
When I served in the Philippines,
I was deeply moved by the experience
of a brother named Miguel,
who while preaching in a prison
met a man named Esmeraldo,
who had killed Miguel’s own grandson.
Now, Miguel was afraid
that when he met Esmeraldo in the prison,
he would try to kill him.
So immediately when Esmeraldo approached him,
Miguel began to explain to him
truths from the Bible.
Well, Esmeraldo was so moved
by what he heard
that he admitted
that he had committed the murder,
and he apologized to Miguel for doing so.
Another brother
was watching this scene from a distance,
and he encouraged Miguel
to start a Bible study with Esmeraldo.
The brother had no idea
of the connection between the two men.
Well, even so, Miguel did agree
to study the Bible with Esmeraldo.
And on February 1, 2010,
Esmeraldo was baptized
as our Christian brother.
Can you imagine?
Can you imagine how much effort
it would have taken for Miguel
to be able to see Esmeraldo
in the way that Jehovah
would come to see him?
But he was willing to make the effort.
Although it will never ever be easy,
if we can learn to see others
in the way that Jehovah sees them,
we’ll focus on their good qualities.
We’ll be eager to help them to improve,
and we may even have the joy
of being able to serve
our wonderful God Jehovah forever
along with them.